>> Steve Kinney: There is another way
to do privilege escalation in this app
as well.
We're using SQL ,right?
But a lot of apps whether they be
JavaScript apps otherwise will sometimes
use a NoSQL database which is
effectively JSON under the hood,
which we can think about as
JavaScript Objects, right?
And one of the attack vectors there is
a little bit different than trying to put
something in a string, right?
A lot of us who have written front-end
code before will see something
like this where it's like object and
it's like, sure, no.
>> Steve Kinney: , and
I wanna say const extended
= {...object and,
like, admin:true}, right?
Or maybe that's not actually what the code
is doing but if you're spread operating
all the properties from one object
onto another you can do this in Mongo.
You can do this in CouchDB, you can
do this a lot of NoSQL databases as
JavaScript objects, and if someone
can slide an extra property in there,
then they can theoretically change
stuff that you did not intended.
And honestly,
that one's on you it's not like,
they were super clever it's just you
were blindly allow listing everything.
One of the key ways to keep yourself
secure is,it's not deny list.
It's not saying it has admin,
then don't let it in cuz, well,
they'll find some weird way to put a back
tech in there and I'll get through, right?
It is basically like, no, for
this request, we allow list a certain
number of properties and
everything else is not allowed, right?
So if you find yourself doing like this,
you're going to like no library is
gonna save you from this, all right?
And there's some really interesting attack
vectors around privilege escalation,
I'm using SQL, so
I made a fake version of this.
And if we go look at posting
to the user profile or
I think patching it, right,
cuz a patch HTTP method means
I want to update only some
properties on this object, right?
Obviously, post means make
a new to-do item, right?
Put means completely updated,
Patch means change a few properties.
Now we all abuse HTTP methods and
we use them wrong and
there are reasons why we do that.
For instance, in the browser,
you can say that a form has a method get,
you can say post, you can try to say any
other one, but it's like the browser
performs only supports get and
post and not all the HTTP methods.
You can only use Patch and Delete and
the other ones with like Fetch, whatever.
So we all tend to abuse the verbs, but if
we're being intellectually honest, right?
What I just wanna do is take
whatever comes in from the body and
update the user with those params.
And that seems legit, right?
So for instance,
if we went back to the core app,
we went to the Profile and
I don't need this open for
a little bit, we can zoom out slightly.
I can go update stuff about myself so
we can become Bobby Tablets.
I included one additional field in here
for a later example that then I broke.
>> Steve Kinney: That one
right there get out of here.
>> Steve Kinney: Bobby Tablets.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, cool.
So now if you look, I can change this name
from Bobby Tables to Bobby Tablets and
I did that a second ago, so I can
actually say, let's change it to Robert.
He's decided as he got older,
he's gonna go by his full
first name that's great, cool.
And I refresh you can see it
persists in the database, but
if we are doing that kind of extending
pattern that we sometimes do from habit,
especially if we've written
a lot of react, right?
We're like, immutable data structures,
yeah, right?
We tend to bring that wherever we go,
and all it takes is someone going,
I think I'm gonna inspect
element over here.
What if we said, instead of Name,
this one was like Admin we'll go,
we'll say the Name of this
property is really admin,
and we'll say the value is like,
true, right?
And it's gonna take all those request body
things, cuz it's making a JSON object.
And if we scroll up and we refresh, look,
we just privileged escalated
ourselves to administrator, right?
Because, again, we blobbed on the object
they guessed that there was a field called
Admin that was true.
Other thing I would probably guess is
probably role seems like a good one and
maybe you don't succeed.
A lot of these things are again, when
we look at some of the famous attacks,
it was, I kind of noticed a thing.
And that led me to notice another thing,
and that led me to notice another thing,
and that led me to the FBI at my house,
right, literally.
And so those are usually how these go but
the solutions on our end are Lala's work,
right?
And so again,
that the solution to this is very simple,
it's basically, kind of in the cases of
.patch for the Profile, right?
Instead of grabbing everything from
request.body, you could say let's say,
assume this thing only let
you change the name, right?
I could grab the credit card and
everything else and it's not important.
So we could say like, for
instance, name, right?
Even those right name, email and
body, and then only pass these in.
>> Steve Kinney: Cuz again,
this is what I was talking about forward
with this idea of allow listing, right?
Where no longer are we
letting them take anything.
They can pass an admin,
they could pass in whatever they want.
They can try to change their address
in this form now to their address and
try to order stuff,
even if they did get the thing.
This case,
we are only allow listing these things.
So now, trying to use the same
attack wouldn't go anywhere,
it would just fall into the void, right?
And no library is gonna
save you from that, right?
That is a tiny little thing that
hopefully, like even a code review,
no one's gonna catch that
in the code review, right?
This is where that kind of thinking
about some of the principles of how we
architect things, and
to give us some mind to go looking for it.
But no code scanning tool, or
thing is gonna detect that for you.
And I think that's kind of one
of the key pieces here as well.
And again I could do this with the form.
Let's say there wasn't a form I could
get a curl command, right, for funsies,
if you ever want, you can go to the
Network tab and you can grab any request
that makes you happy and you can do copy
as either curl as a fetch command and
you can tweak all the different
params to anything you want, right?
Cuz again, the good part of the web is
that they don't need to install anything.
The bad part is effectively
whoever's on the receiving end
has access all your code, right?
And so they can theoretically
grab these tweak them, and
there's nothing wrong
with that per se as well.
But knowing that it is on
your responsibility to then
defend code defensively.